Publish the anatomy of a coding assistant blog post (#7002)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2024/anatomy-of-a-coding-assistant.md

---
title: "The anatomy of an AI coding assistant"
authors:
  - name: YK Sugi
    url: https://x.com/ykdojo
publishDate: 2024-06-13T10:00-01:00
description: "Discover how AI coding assistants like Sourcegraph Cody enhance developer productivity by leveraging context. Learn about features like autocomplete, chat, test generation, and code editing, and how they fetch relevant code snippets to provide accurate suggestions and edits."
tags: [blog]
slug: 'content/blogposts/2024/anatomy-of-a-coding-assistant'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png
---

![1_pointer](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png)

Have you ever wondered how an AI coding assistant works?

> We’ve been working on our AI coding assistant, Cody, for a while now, and over time we’ve learned that really, ***context is king***.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve been working on our AI coding assistant, [Cody](https://sourcegraph.com/cody), for a while now, and over time we’ve learned that really, ***context is king***.
```

![4_chatgpt2](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/4_chatgpt2.png)

So, by fetching the right parts of your codebase and giving them to your AI coding assistant, the underlying AI model is able to come up with much better answers.

![5_cody](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/5_cody.png)

Over the past year or so, we’ve learned a lot about what works for fetching the right context for an AI coding assistant. In this post, I’m going to share some of those learnings and uncover how it works under the hood.

---

## An AI coding assistant - a product of products

The reality is, if you look at a coding assistant like [Sourcegraph Cody](https://sourcegraph.com/cody), it’s not a single product—it’s many products put together. You have autocomplete, which makes suggestions as you code that keep you in flow. Then there’s chat, which allows you to ask questions of and generate code that fits in your codebase. Cody also has a feature that automates quick inline code changes with natural language, and another one that generates unit tests.

![6_edits](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/6_edits.png)

> Each of these features works very differently from one another. The mental model of the user and the requirements are different for each. For autocomplete, speed is key. You want it to be very fast and accurate enough so that it doesn’t interrupt the programmer’s flow. On the other hand, for chat, accuracy and the quality of the responses may be more important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of these features works very differently from one another. The mental model of the user and the requirements are different for each. **For autocomplete, speed is key.** You want it to be very fast and accurate enough so that it doesn’t interrupt the programmer’s flow. On the other hand, **for chat, accuracy and the quality of the responses may be more important**.
```

When generating tests, there may be additional requirements. For example, if you’re looking at a file and want to add tests to it, you need to quickly detect if a test file for that file already exists. So, when we say “coding assistant,” it might sound simple, but it’s actually a product of products—multiple products put together to create a comprehensive experience.

In this post, we're going to take a look at how context fetching works for each particular feature - chat, autocomplete, generating tests, and editing code.

---

## How context fetching works for chat

![8_chat](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/8_chat.png)

Chat allows you to ask questions about your codebase and generate code that's tailored to work within your codebase. For this, we want a few things:

1. **Conversation history:** In a given chat session, we record previous messages as they may contain relevant context for the user's next request.
2. **Code search:** We fetch the most relevant code snippets related to the user's query from the codebase using search, similar to how a human dev might search for these code snippets.

> 3. **User control:** Users should have the ability to mention specific files and provide those directly to the model, and also include the option to reference external sources like Slack threads or Notion documents to enrich the context further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **User choice:** Users should have the ability to mention specific files and provide those directly to the model, and also include the option to reference external sources like Slack threads or Notion documents to enrich the context further.
```

maybe "choice" instead of "control"?

Author: Hmm here, I think "control" fits better. "Choice" makes me think of choosing an LLM model - so maybe more like choosing one thing out of several options.

Reviewer: Makes sense. :)

![9_context](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/9_context.png)

For code search, we use two techniques for surfacing relevant snippets:

> 1. **AI-enhanced keyword search:** We ask an LLM a question like, "Given this user query, what keywords should be used to search for relevant parts of the codebase?" We use these keywords to query a keyword search index we've created over the codebase. This index returns a set of results, ordered by Sourcegraph's code-aware ranking mechanism, and we select the top results subject to the constraint of the LLM's context window.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can just call this `Keyword Search`, and instead of saying "We ask the LLM...", we can emphasize all the different thoughtful transformations we do (some of which are just from 'traditional' search). So something like...

"We first perform a 'query understanding' step, which interprets the user's query and crafts a set of code searches to perform. This step pulls out important entities like file paths and symbols, as well as key terms and their variants. We use both traditional search techniques, and a lightweight LLM to process queries."

    1. To convert code snippets into embeddings, we use either OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 model or Sourcegraph's own model called st-multi-qa-mpnet-base-dot-v1. The choice between these models is [determined by a feature flag](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/ee47055967bdb3e65c8694cab726dd47d50c29ba/vscode/src/local-context/local-embeddings.ts#L31). The embeddings are [stored locally on your machine](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/main/vscode/src/local-context/local-embeddings.ts#L55).
    
![11_embeddings](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/11_embeddings.png)
    

Currently, [we default to a mix of both](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/0238df0eda7e6e9be03139a56a89e235b76be448/vscode/package.json#L967) with an option to use one or the other.

> ### Recent improvements to context fetching for chat

Reviewer 2: What if we just removed this section, in favor of mentioning these things under the "Keyword Search" section, as my comment above suggests? Maybe it's just me, but these improvements don't sound that technically impressive on their own :)

In addition to automatic context fetching, we've found that providing a way for the user to manually include context is also helpful. We've done this by letting the user ask questions about specific files by @-mentioning them. More recently, we've realized that there is more context the user sometimes wants to include outside of the codebase, such as documentation, web pages, Slack threads, Linear issues, and Notion documents. We've created an open source protocol called [OpenCtx](https://openctx.org/) to make it super easy to bring in context from any source.

[![20_tweet](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/20_tweet.png)](https://x.com/beyang/status/1792616243742244974)

---

## Context fetching for autocomplete

Autocomplete provides code suggestions as you code in your editor. For this feature, we want it to feel as instantaneous as possible because we don’t want to break the flow of the programmer. At the same time, we want to quickly find and identify which code snippets to include as part of the context to provide high-quality suggestions.

![13_autocomplete](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/13_autocomplete.png)

> For this, we look at a few sources of information: the cursor position, the surrounding code, and the code graph (a code graph is a representation of the relationships and structures within a codebase, mapping entities such as classes and methods to show how they are interconnected). We use the current cursor position within the code graph to determine if the user wants a single-line suggestion or a multi-line suggestion. Once we determine that, we add more context by looking through recent files and open tabs. Within those, we find code snippets related to the code you're currently writing.

Reviewer 2: It'd be good to explain how we use the code graph for autocomplete context. I know this is unclear to many people (both inside and out of Sourcegraph).

Author: Added a link to this to answer it - hope it clarifies it: https://sourcegraph.notion.site/How-do-we-use-the-code-graph-for-autocomplete-context-11145ad3e07049e8ab1add7ac3012f81

Reviewer 2: That indeed helps. However It's still unclear to me when and if we actually use this. For example, is LSP context actually enabled by default for our customers?

Author: I looked into it, and it looks like it's determined by a feature flag: https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/main/vscode/src/completions/completion-provider-config.ts#L77

As well as a config variable: https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/54b25dc7d17bac425c2b59b04ca08d600ef184ed/vscode/package.json#L1137

![14_autocomplete2](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/14_autocomplete2.png)

> For autocomplete, we don't currently use embeddings. Instead, we consider all relevant chunks from the current file, surrounding file, and recently edited files. We compare each of these chunks to the current code being written using something called the Jaccard similarity coefficient. This provides a very fast retrieval mechanism over this set of files, which is crucial for fitting into the latency budget that autocomplete requires. If you’re curious about this, you can check [this document](https://www.notion.so/How-we-find-similar-code-snippets-for-autocomplete-9eaf5ab9179a4e799952a7f12c94dd6d?pvs=21) for more information about it, and you can even dig into the source code because much of Cody is open source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For autocomplete, we don't currently use embeddings. Instead, we consider all relevant chunks from the current file, surrounding file, and recently edited files. We compare each of these chunks to the current code being written using something called the [Jaccard similarity coefficient](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaccard_index). This provides a very fast retrieval mechanism over this set of files, which is crucial for fitting into the latency budget that autocomplete requires. If you’re curious about this, you can check [this document](https://www.notion.so/How-we-find-similar-code-snippets-for-autocomplete-9eaf5ab9179a4e799952a7f12c94dd6d?pvs=21) for more information about it, and you can even dig into the source code because much of Cody is open source.
```

![15_similar](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/15_similar.png)

> Once we create rankings of different code snippets from various sources this way, we combine them using what’s called Reciprocal Rank Fusion. For more details on this, you can find [this other document](https://www.notion.so/How-we-combine-multiple-snippet-lists-d567d4b0a4c54197bc5df6e178749860?pvs=21) about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we create rankings of different code snippets from various sources this way, we combine them using what’s called Reciprocal Rank Fusion. For more details on this, you can [read this document](https://www.notion.so/How-we-combine-multiple-snippet-lists-d567d4b0a4c54197bc5df6e178749860?pvs=21).
```

> Once we create rankings of different code snippets from various sources this way, we combine them using what’s called Reciprocal Rank Fusion. For more details on this, you can [read this document](https://www.notion.so/How-we-combine-multiple-snippet-lists-d567d4b0a4c54197bc5df6e178749860?pvs=21).

Reviewer 2: Is this notion doc publicly available? (Am I understanding right that this blog is meant for public consumption?)

Author: Yes is it publicly available

Context fetching for autocomplete relies mostly on fast classical and compiler-based techniques, rather than LLMs, because we need something that performs very quickly and can be invoked at high volume. As long as the quality of the selected snippets is good enough, the LLM model can use that information to produce high-quality suggestions.

---

## Context fetching for test generation

This feature allows you to select a file and automatically generate tests for it. The requirements for this feature are vastly different from those for chat or autocomplete. For this, we want to be able to detect if there is already a test file for the chosen file. If it doesn’t exist, we want to generate that automatically. Whether you end up generating a new file or finding an existing test file for the chosen file, we want to be able to add relevant files for context.

![16_test](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/16_test.png)

> To achieve this, after creating or finding the test file, we find other test files to understand how tests are written in the given project. This ensures that the AI doesn’t hallucinate and uses the appropriate methods and conventions. Without this context, test generation wouldn’t work as well because it might use outdated methods or methods not used in the given project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, after creating or finding the test file, we find other test files to understand how tests are written in the given project. This significantly reduces AI hallucinations and ensures we use the appropriate methods and conventions. Without this context, test generation wouldn’t work as well because it might use outdated methods or methods not used in the given project.
```

I don't want to say that it prevents hallucinations 100% so maybe something along the lines of my suggestion.

![17_test_context](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/17_test_context.png)

---

## Context fetching for editing code

> This is a feature that lets you select a block of code and edit it using a natural language instruction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a feature that lets you select a block of code and edit it using natural language instructions.
```

![18_edits](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/18_edits.png)
For this, we automatically retrieve:

- Surrounding code, both before and after the cursor
- Diagnostic information like warnings and errors
- User-specified context from @-mentions

> By including diagnostic information, we're able to provide more appropriate code edits to the selected range of code. In the future, we plan to incorporate code graph context here as well.

Reviewer: Do we also want to say something along the lines of "With the code editing feature, we put greater emphasis on the users prompt and rely on the above context sources to generate high quality code output."

This section feels a little incomplete and could use a few more details imo.

Author: Added:

> With the code editing feature, we currently put greater emphasis on the users prompt and rely on the above context sources to generate high quality code output.

> This section feels a little incomplete and could use a few more details imo.

Definitely. Writing this part helped me realized that there's more we can do here from the product development perspective, too.

Reviewer: Awesome! Thank you. Yeah I think the editing/inserting code feature is a sleeping giant that if we invest more into, could be huge.

---

## Further room for improvement

Even though creating and polishing a context fetching mechanism for each of these features has taken a lot of work, we must admit that there’s still a lot of room for improvement.

Some of the areas we’re still actively working are:

- Underlying LLM models, comparing different models and [fine-tuning](https://sourcegraph.com/blog/enhancing-code-completion-for-rust-in-cody) some of them
- A query rewriting strategy where we have AI rewrite user queries to fit our context-fetching system better

> - (Work in progress) a smarter way to determine what types of context need to be fetched for each query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A smarter way to determine what types of context need to be fetched for each query
```

we already mention before we get into the list that these are things we're actively working on so I don't think it's necessary to call it out again.

> - A query rewriting strategy where we have AI rewrite user queries to fit our context-fetching system better

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this refers to. Are you talking about query intent detection (similar to your next bullet item)? Also, we could mention ML-based context reranking as something we're actively working on.

Author: I was referring to this one: https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C06B4NPC92B/p1718039087008729

Reviewer 2: Ah okay, thanks for clarifying.

---
title: "The anatomy of an AI coding assistant"
authors:
  - name: YK Sugi
    url: https://x.com/ykdojo
publishDate: 2024-06-13T10:00-01:00
description: "Discover how AI coding assistants like Sourcegraph Cody enhance developer productivity by leveraging context. Learn about features like autocomplete, chat, test generation, and code editing, and how they fetch relevant code snippets to provide accurate suggestions and edits."
tags: [blog]
slug: 'content/blogposts/2024/anatomy-of-a-coding-assistant'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png
---

![1_pointer](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/1_pointer.png)

Have you ever wondered how an AI coding assistant works?

> We’ve been working on our AI coding assistant, Sourcegraph Cody, for a while now, and over time we’ve learned that really, ***context is king***.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’ve been working on our AI coding assistant, Cody, for a while now, and over time we’ve learned that really, ***context is king***.
```

![2_octopus](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/2_octopus.png)

If you ask ChatGPT a coding question about your particular codebase, it won’t be able to answer it because it doesn’t know anything about your codebase.

![3_chatgpt](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/3_chatgpt.png)

> Even if it happens to be open-sourced, the answer you get might be outdated or not accurate enough.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even if it happens to be open source, the answer you get might be outdated or not accurate enough.
```

![4_chatgpt2](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/4_chatgpt2.png)

So, by fetching the right parts of your codebase and giving them to your AI coding assistant, the underlying AI model is able to come up with much better answers.

![5_cody](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/5_cody.png)

Over the past year or so, we’ve learned a lot about what works for fetching the right context for an AI coding assistant. In this post, I’m going to share some of those learnings and uncover how it works under the hood.

---

## An AI coding assistant - a product of products

> The reality is, if you look at a coding assistant like [Sourcegraph Cody](https://sourcegraph.com/cody), it’s not a single product—it’s many products put together. You have autocomplete, which allows you to keep coding and get suggestions as you flow through your code. Then there’s chat, which allows you to chat with your codebase. Cody also has a feature that lets you edit code, and another one that generates unit tests based on a particular file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The reality is, if you look at a coding assistant like [Sourcegraph Cody](https://sourcegraph.com/cody), it’s not a single product—it’s many products put together. You have autocomplete, which makes suggestions as you code that keep you in flow. Then there’s chat, which allows you to ask questions of and generate code that fits in your codebase. Cody also has a feature that automates quick inline code changes with natural language, and another one that generates unit tests.
```

Each of these features works very differently from one another. The mental model of the user and the requirements are different for each. For autocomplete, speed is key. You want it to be very fast and accurate enough so that it doesn’t interrupt the programmer’s flow. On the other hand, for chat, accuracy and the quality of the responses may be more important.

![7_tradeoff](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/7_tradeoff.png)

When generating tests, there may be additional requirements. For example, if you’re looking at a file and want to add tests to it, you need to quickly detect if a test file for that file already exists. So, when we say “coding assistant,” it might sound simple, but it’s actually a product of products—multiple products put together to create a comprehensive experience.

In this post, we're going to take a look at how context fetching works for each particular feature - chat, autocomplete, generating tests, and editing code.

---

## How context fetching works for chat

![8_chat](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/8_chat.png)

> Chat is the feature that allows you to interact with an AI model about your codebase. For this, we want a few things:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chat allows you to ask questions about your codebase and generate code that's tailored to work within your codebase. For this, we want a few things:
```

> 1. **Conversation history:** We need to keep track of the entire conversation history so it makes sense as continuous chat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Conversation history:** In a given chat session, we record previous messages as they may contain relevant context for the user's next request.
```

> 2. **Automatic context fetching:** It's important to automatically fetch the most relevant code snippets related to the user's query.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Code search:** We fetch the most relevant code snippets related to the user's query from the codebase using search, similar to how a human dev might search for these code snippets.
```

3. **User control:** Users should have the ability to mention specific files and provide those directly to the model, and also include the option to reference external sources like Slack threads or Notion documents to enrich the context further.

![9_context](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/9_context.png)

> For automatic context fetching, we’ve found that there are two options that work fairly well:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For code search, we use two techniques for surfacing relevant snippets:
```

> 1. **Indexed search:** We ask an LLM a question like, "Given this user query, what keywords should be used to search for relevant parts of the codebase?" Once the AI provides keywords, we use a search engine that leverages indexing to perform the search. We get search rankings, and based on a predefined token limit, we send the most relevant search results back to the main AI model you're having a conversation with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **AI-enhanced keyword search:** We ask an LLM a question like, "Given this user query, what keywords should be used to search for relevant parts of the codebase?" We use these keywords to query a keyword search index we've created over the codebase. This index returns a set of results, ordered by Sourcegraph's code-aware ranking mechanism, and we select the top results subject to the constraint of the LLM's context window.
```

>     1. For free and Pro users, we use our home-grown search engine called symf, written in Golang, that runs on your local environment.
>     2. For Enterprise users, we leverage [Sourcegraph’s Code Search](https://sourcegraph.com/code-search) for this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: this is going to change soon and at a high level, both work the same, so we should omit these 2 lines

    
![10_indexed](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/10_indexed.png)
    

> 2. **Embeddings:** When we set up embeddings, we first convert code snippets from various files into embeddings in a preprocessing step. Then, when we get the user query, we convert it to an embedding as well. Using these embeddings, we perform vector search to find the most relevant code snippets for the user query. An embedding is a vector representation of a piece of text, and vector search helps find the most relevant pieces of text given another piece of text, such as the user query.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Embeddings:** Embeddings refer to the internal vector of numbers that LLMs use to represent text. When we set up embeddings, we first convert code snippets from various files into embeddings in an indexing step. At query time, we convert the user query to an embedding vector, too. Using these embeddings, we perform vector search to find the most relevant code snippets for the user query.
```

    1. To convert code snippets into embeddings, we use either OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 model or Sourcegraph's own model called st-multi-qa-mpnet-base-dot-v1. The choice between these models is [determined by a feature flag](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/ee47055967bdb3e65c8694cab726dd47d50c29ba/vscode/src/local-context/local-embeddings.ts#L31). The embeddings are [stored locally on your machine](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/main/vscode/src/local-context/local-embeddings.ts#L55).
    
![11_embeddings](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/11_embeddings.png)
    

> In our product, [we default to a mix of both](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/0238df0eda7e6e9be03139a56a89e235b76be448/vscode/package.json#L967) with an option to use one or the other.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, [we default to a mix of both](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/blob/0238df0eda7e6e9be03139a56a89e235b76be448/vscode/package.json#L967) with an option to use one or the other.
```

### Recent improvements to context fetching for chat

With [the June release](https://sourcegraph.com/blog/release/june-2024), we made several improvements: Enterprise context now rewrites queries, enabling us to handle longer and foreign-language questions. We also detect filenames and symbols in queries, addressing a class of "easy-looking" questions users expect us to get right.

---

## Context sources outside of your codebase

> In addition to automatic context fetching, we've found that providing a way for the user to manually include context is also helpful. We've done this by letting the user ask questions about specific files by @-mentioning them. More recently, we've realized that there is more context the user sometimes wants to include outside of the codebase, such as documentation, web pages, Slack threads, Linear issues, and Notion documents. We've made this possible through [OpenCtx](https://openctx.org/), and it has proven useful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to automatic context fetching, we've found that providing a way for the user to manually include context is also helpful. We've done this by letting the user ask questions about specific files by @-mentioning them. More recently, we've realized that there is more context the user sometimes wants to include outside of the codebase, such as documentation, web pages, Slack threads, Linear issues, and Notion documents. We've created an open source protocol called [OpenCtx](https://openctx.org/) to make it super easy to bring in context from any source.
```

[![20_tweet](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/20_tweet.png)](https://x.com/beyang/status/1792616243742244974)

> At the moment, this allows users to include context from various sources manually. In the future, we envision this feature being used by both users and AI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's accessible to both humans and AI today. OpenCtx annotations are visible in the Sourcegraph UI.

---

## Context fetching for autocomplete

> Autocomplete is the feature that suggests what line(s) of code to write as you go through your code editor. For this feature, we want it to feel as instantaneous as possible because we don’t want to break the flow of the programmer. At the same time, we want to quickly find and identify which code snippets to include as part of the context to provide high-quality suggestions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Autocomplete provides code suggestions as you code in your editor. For this feature, we want it to feel as instantaneous as possible because we don’t want to break the flow of the programmer. At the same time, we want to quickly find and identify which code snippets to include as part of the context to provide high-quality suggestions.
```

![13_autocomplete](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/13_autocomplete.png)

> For this, we look at a few sources of information: the cursor position, the surrounding code, and the code graph (a code graph is a representation of the relationships and structures within a codebase, mapping entities such as classes and methods to show how they are interconnected). Using heuristics, such as examining the cursor position within the code graph, we determine if the user wants a single-line suggestion or a multi-line suggestion. Once we determine that, we add more context by looking through recent files and open tabs. Within those, we find similar code snippets to the surrounding code of the current cursor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this, we look at a few sources of information: the cursor position, the surrounding code, and the code graph (a code graph is a representation of the relationships and structures within a codebase, mapping entities such as classes and methods to show how they are interconnected). We use the current cursor position within the code graph to determine if the user wants a single-line suggestion or a multi-line suggestion. Once we determine that, we add more context by looking through recent files and open tabs. Within those, we find code snippets related to the code you're currently writing.
```

---

## Context fetching for editing code

This is a feature that lets you select a block of code and edit it using a natural language instruction.

![18_edits](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/18_edits.png)
For this, we automatically retrieve:

- Surrounding code (prefix and suffix)
- Diagnostic information (warnings and errors)
- User-defined contexts

In the future, we’re planning to incorporate code graph contexts as well. By bringing diagnostic information, we're able to provide more appropriate code edits to the selected range.

---

## Further room for improvement

Even though creating and polishing a context fetching mechanism for each of these features has taken a lot of work, we must admit that there’s still a lot of room for improvement.

Some of the areas we’re still actively working are:

- Underlying LLM models, comparing different models and fine-tuning some of them
- A query rewriting strategy where we have AI rewrite user queries to fit our context-fetching system better
- (Work in progress) a smarter way to determine what types of context need to be fetched for each query

> Our long-term goal is to create an AI coding assistant that finds the right context for you in a smart way, not just from your codebase, but from any context a human software engineer would refer to in order to get the job done.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our long-term goal is to create an AI coding assistant that finds the right context for you in a smart way, not just from your codebase, but from any tool or reference source that a human software engineer would use in order to get the job done.
```

---

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 3: I would delete this entire section and just add a CTA to install or try Cody

![17_test_context](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/17_test_context.png)

---

## Context fetching for editing code

This is a feature that lets you select a block of code and edit it using natural language instructions.

![18_edits](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/anatomy/18_edits.png)
For this, we automatically retrieve:

- Surrounding code, both before and after the cursor
- Diagnostic information like warnings and errors
- User-specified context from @-mentions

By including diagnostic information, we're able to provide more appropriate code edits to the selected range of code. With the code editing feature, we currently put greater emphasis on the users prompt and rely on the above context sources to generate high quality code output. In the future, we plan to incorporate code graph context here as well.

---

## A note on evals

Over time, we've developed many ways to evaluate different context-fetching methods as well as the underlying LLM models.

For example, we have:

> - a set of ~90 queries we run against open source repos to test the efficiacy of our chat system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a set of ~90 queries we run against open source repos to test the efficacy of our chat system
```
